[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: Let's look at
another problem to solve here.
So it's really cool that we can
build our bundle and our app works.
But running this command every single time
we make a change to the bootstrap.js file
would be insanity.
I wouldn't want to do that.
And so you can actually, you don't
have to do this, but you can actually,
with npm scripts pass additional
arguments to the script.
And so by adding this -- here,
anything else I pass here will
get forwarded on to the script.
So here you see I do a whole
bunch of crazy stuff right there.
Here, let me fix that.
And if you look at the script that
npm runs, we'll take off the s there,
then you'll see the npm runs webpack
with the thing that I passed.
So that's an npm scripts thing.
Yeah, my terminal thing is kind of funny.
So if we say npm run build:dev and
then we will add the -s there to
tell npm to be quiet, and
then we'll forward on watch.
Then it will build our bundle and then
wait for us to make a change to the file.
And the really cool thing about,
here, we'll say log ('foo').
Log is a global function of, oops,
we need to start up our server share.
What happened?
There we go.
So npm start.
So now we get that log foo right there.
I can change it to foos,
cuz I like foosball, and now it's foos.
So the really cool thing about this is,
because webpack is in charge of all of our
assets, when it sees
that a file was changed,
it can just update that one file rather
than rebuilding the whole thing.
And so it's lightning fast.
This took seven milliseconds.
I dare you to race webpack to your browser
to try and refresh it before it finishes.
So, yeah, it is lightning fast.
Even in a giant application updating
a single module is very fast,
even with transpilation and
stuff, which is awesome.
The reason that I'm doing all this in the
console right here is just to illustrate
the point of watch mode.
We're not going to use this ourselves.
We're actually going to use a special
server that webpack provides for us,
rather than our http server, because
it does a bunch of cool things for us.
So we'll go into our package Json.
We're gonna have another dependency that
you would normally just npm install.
We'll say webpack-dev-server; and
we'll need a comma there.
The latest version that we're going to
install, it needs to be the beta version,
so it will be to 2.1.0-beta.0.
And with that already installed,
we're going to add a dev script.
It doesn't matter what order you put these
scripts in because, once we check out
the next branch, it's all going to be
reset anyway, so just put it wherever.
And then we'll say webpack-dev-server.
>> Kent C Dodds: And
let me just make sure.
Now if we run npm, and
we'll start that dev script,
so npm run dev.
>> Kent C Dodds: Then we'll
get a whole bunch of
output of all this stuff.
What this is is it's saying,
here we have this asset called bundle.
This is how big it is,
and all this information.
And then here all the files
that are in that bundle.
So here all the modules that are in it.
Only one of these files
is actually our file.
So the webpack-dev-server has a whole
bunch of modules that it's using to do its
job to enhance your
development experience.
And we'll see some of that when we start
talking about hot module replacement and
stuff like that, which everybody is
excited about because it's one of
the biggest buzzwords around webpack.
But yeah, so
now if we refresh our browser,
what we're actually hitting, whoops.
Let me make sure that this is closed off.
Close that out, restart my dev-server.
And what we're actually hitting
now is the webpack server itself.
And so there are a couple of
interesting and cool things about this.
But let me show you one problem
that you might run into
when you're playing around with this.
And that is if I try to log ('hello
world') in this bootstrap file,
it is gonna rebuild.
And it does it very quickly,
again in 42 milliseconds.
And then if I go in here,
I see hello world.
Now that's not what I was expecting.
It was supposed to be broken.
So I did something [LAUGH]
to make it not be broken.
It's magic!
[LAUGH] That's funny.
Okay, source bundle.
Sorry, I skipped a step and
that's why it's working magically.
So I'm actually gonna go ahead and
stop right there and
give you an opportunity to catch up and
ask any questions that you have before
we move onto that step that I skipped.
Yeah, question.
>> Speaker 2: Question on
will we look at different source maps?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yes,
we will look at source maps.
There are actually lots of different
combinations of source maps that you can
use with webpack, and
it's kind of confusing.
I've gone through all of them and
found two that I like, one for
production and one for development.
Those are the only two I care about,
so we'll look at those.
Okay, Andres asked what should we do
if our HTML is coming from a CMS?
Can we use webpack-dev-server?
I should have specified
webpack-dev-server is not for production,
webpack-dev-server, well,
it's for dev, for development.
And so you use it because
it enhances your experience
while you're developing pretty well.
And then ultimately, you bundle and
send your resulting bundle off to a CDN.
If you're storing your HTML in a CMS,
you have to do things a little bit
differently because that dependency
can't exactly be explicit.
It sounds like it's coming
from somewhere else.
And so you'll have to work around that
a little bit to make it work with webpack.
But you'll pretty much be doing
the same thing you're doing now,
that one part will be
outside the band of webpack.
Does webpack-dev-server
use the bundle.js file?
That is an excellent question.
I will answer that, Irvin,
in the next little segment.
It doesn't use the one that you generated.
So, actually,
you can delete your bundle.js file here.
And restart your webpack-dev-server, and
you'll notice that it doesn't
actually generate that file again.
And you go in here and it's still working.
It's serving up the file from memory
because memory is much faster
than file system.
And so, yeah.
And that's part of the reason why we
use webpack-dev-server in development,
is so that we don't have to worry about
serving it up from the file system.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: So
is there a practical limit
to the size of app you can
use this capability on?
>> Kent C Dodds: You're talking
about the development side of things?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
because it's fast but-
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah,
so as your app grows the bundling
piece can take a while.
And especially if you had a lot of
pre-processors and stuff, lots of loaders,
then it takes longer, and plugins and
things can slow things down too.
So, yeah, I've had some really big apps
using webpack that take
like 40 seconds to start.
But once they're going,
the recompilation of
individual files as you were
developing is lightning fast, still.
Like, under 200 milliseconds.
So I still can't get to
the browser fast enough.
>> Speaker 2: This is cool.
>> Kent C Dodds: I agree,
I think it is cool, too.
So Watson Deep asks does
webpack-dev-server work with other
frameworks such as Express?
Yes, it does.
We're not going to be looking into that,
but webpack-dev-server does have
a Node API that you can plug
in as a middleware in Express.
And I'm doing it in PayPal, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: And
a followup from that CMS question was, can
we use a loader to pull in that external
HTML?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah,
you might be able to use a loader to,
because the loader runs at bundle time,
it's not a runtime thing.
And so you could use a loader to take some
sort of special string or something and
convert it into something that works for
your CMS, for example.
Yeah, it's probably not the use case for
a loader.
It really kind of depends on
the way that your CMS is set up.
But yeah,
you can definitely make it work, but
it's probably not going to be a loader.